Abhinaav Singh: Hello everybody, my name is open up and i'm an information systems graduate student at CMU i'm going to spend the next few minutes talking about Amazon prime watch party and how it changed the product service system for Amazon prime video.
Abhinaav Singh: Let me start by talking about how the online movie streaming industry is rapidly evolving.
Abhinaav Singh: Online movies streaming was already growing at a fast pace, but covert acted as a catalyst, helping it grow exponentially, according to a survey by statistics by June credit 20 36% adults preferred streaming movies online as compared to only 14% that prefer to watch it in a theater.
Abhinaav Singh: Not only that Amazon prime video is particularly doing well in the industry already at number two it is quickly closing the gap between itself and netflix the industry leader.
Abhinaav Singh: By q2 of 2021 time we do boasted of having captured 20% of the market share extremely close to netflix's 28% market share.
Abhinaav Singh: Previously, there were only two major ways of watching a movie that friends, the first one was to meet friends and then go to a theater to watch a movie.
Abhinaav Singh: The second way was to meet friends at home and then watch a movie on a streaming service like prime video together.
Abhinaav Singh: trying to do was already overtake theaters and most of the direct competitors and becoming the go to group movie viewing experience one way in which it was doing so was to curating a vast enrich movie catalog.
Abhinaav Singh: This behind the visibility line action seem to be enough before the advent of covert.
Abhinaav Singh: However, covert change industry heavily and the activities highlighted in red became extremely difficult to perform anymore.
Abhinaav Singh: One could no longer meet with friends to watch a movie in theaters or stream it together.
Abhinaav Singh: This made it quite difficult to have the same social experience of movie viewing as we, as we were used to before covert.
Abhinaav Singh: It became obvious that Amazon would have have to see how they could innovate at the touch points of their service to provide a similar if not a better experience.
Abhinaav Singh: time we did recognize this challenge as an opportunity and introduced a service called watch party.
Abhinaav Singh: This service enabled users to view movies together about virtually, this was an extremely clever way to replicate the same social experience in a way that the users could still enjoy the company of their friends, while watching their favorite flick.
Abhinaav Singh: The journey here shows the user first going to Amazon prime then starting a watch party for the favorite movie This allows them to view the same movie together in a synchronous fashion and to interact with each other, while the movies playing.
Abhinaav Singh: there's also help Amazon accelerate co creation of value with customers, as the viewers could derive entertainment, not just from the stream movie but also from the interactions with difference.
Abhinaav Singh: Now let's look at the elemental dominance and how it award.
Abhinaav Singh: Before watch party time we do still had a lot service component in the form of the movie viewing experience during online streaming.
Abhinaav Singh: It did have a relatively small physical component, but it's prime fire stick and the remote.
Abhinaav Singh: Interestingly, the fire stick and remote also acted as peripheral evidence for the movie streaming service.
Abhinaav Singh: other items like the laptop or the TV itself added to the physical component.
Abhinaav Singh: Now, after the launch of watch party, the elemental dominance further shifted towards the server side with the added experience of virtually viewing movies, along with friends.
Abhinaav Singh: Looking at the same scenario two planes lenses you are able to identify which service value is dominant.
Abhinaav Singh: You can tell that watch party as a service was more about providing access to users.
Abhinaav Singh: As it was giving them a movie viewing experience with their loved ones.
Abhinaav Singh: let's look at the same experience in the context of how unbundling unbundling of the experience to place to the introduction of watch party.
Abhinaav Singh: Previously, the user, how to log into prime video start the movie and independently view the movie whole movie only after that could they discuss the movie with your friends.
Abhinaav Singh: This was a departure from the social experience of watching the movie with loved ones and sharing that moment together to interactions as the movie was being played.
Abhinaav Singh: let's try to look at the service addition in terms of team materialisation and unbundling experience.
Abhinaav Singh: The experiences D materialized a lot, as there is no longer than need to physically meet with friends to enjoy their company, while viewing movies.
Abhinaav Singh: Amazon has unbundled the experience and paralyze the experience of sharing parts and discussing experiences as they are viewing the movie online instead of discussing it after having beautiful movie.
Abhinaav Singh: That was all from my side hope you enjoyed the presentation, thank you.